{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12700\viewh13620\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Every four years, more than 150 countries compete to enter the World Cup. The popularity of football around the world is a classic example of the benefits brought by the British as they exported the Industrial Revolution to the rest of the world. Because it is so widely popular, soccer provides a good test for ability of economic theory to explain differences in international performance. Ironically, England and Scotland do not dominate the global stage, even though they are rich and they invented the sport. Naturally, an economic literature has attempted to explain differences if cross-country football performance. The original paper in this literature Hoffman, Ging, and Ramasamy (2002) presents a model for FIFA rankings which is tautological, a problem that the subsequent literature has not specifically addressed. In this paper we resolve this problem. The principal direction for identifying the economic determinants of cross-country football performance considers popular measures such as GDP per capita and population. The literature has also considered national sport-specific policy measures, non-economic geographic factors typical of international trade theory, institutional factors, and human development measures. However, every study has presented a static model. This paper is the first paper to model FIFA rankings over time. We model an annual time series of points used to determine FIFA rankings spanning 1994 - 2012. Since FIFA points are cumulative, they directly translate into the long term success of the national teams earning them.\
\
\
}